So here we have a list of 4 items. We can use square bracketts
to access individual items in this list. So
let's print letters of zero, this will return the
first item in this list. So when we run this program we get
a. Now similar to strings, if we pass
a negative index here. Like -1. This will return
the first item from the end of the list. So,
when we run this, we get d, using square
brackets we can also modify items in the list, so,
lets change the first letter to a capital A,
and then print the entire list, there you go.
So this is the basic of accessing individual
increments in the list, now earlier in the course, you learned that we can use
two index's to slice a string. We have the exact same thing here.
So, we add square brackets, first
index: second index. And this will return
a new list with the first 3 items in our
original list. So if we print our original list,
we can see that it is not changed,
now just like strings if you don't specify the first argument,
0 will be assumed by default, so as you can see, these two expressions
use the exact same result. Similarly, if you
don't include the end index, by default
the length of the list will be used here. So the length of this. So this expression will return
a new list, with all the items in the original list.
And similarly we can also exclude the start index
here, and with this syntax we can get copy of our original
list. There you go. Now when slicing the string,
we can also pass a step, and this is useful
in situations where you want to return every second or every third
element in the original list. So now let me run this code,
we'll get a and c. So B
will be skipped. Let me show you using a better example.
So, I'm going to delete everything here, create a new list,
numbers, here we're going to use the list functions and
pass range of 20. Let's
print our list. So we get numbers 0
to 19. Okay, now let's see what happens when
we add square brackets here with two colons and
2. This will return every other element in the original
list. Take a look. So we get all the
even numbers. 0, 2, 4, and so on. That's pretty cool, isn't it?
Here is another cool thing you can do here. Let's change the
step to negative 1, as you can see
this will return all the items in the original list, but
in reverse order. So these are some useful things you can do with
lists. Next we'll look at unpacking lists.